Washington worried by Venezuela, Cuban socialism
MIS
20 August 2005
09:26
Agence France Presse
HAVANA, Aug 20 (AFP) -

Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez' visit to Cuba this weekend, to weld his alliance with
President Fidel Castro's revolution, is keeping alive a socialist threat in Latin America as far
as Washington is concerned.

The leftist-populist Chavez will make his 13th visit to Cuba since taking power in 1999 to
visit his personal friend, Castro. At the Latin American School of Medicine, Chavez will
attend a graduation of students from several countries, including 400 Venezuelans.
Chavez, who hosts a weekly radio call-in program, "Hello, Mr. President," will this weekend
take questions alongside Castro in Havana. The famously long-winded Castro launched a
similar program in March, in which he chats for hours before a television audience on policies,
both domestic and foreign.

"I don't know how many hours 'Hello, Mr. President' is going to last," Chavez joked.
The two presidents have challenged Washington to demand the extradition of a common foe:
anti-Castro militant Luis Posada Carriles. He was arrested in the United States by immigration
authorities but is wanted on terrorism charges in Venezuela and Cuba.
Venezuelan prosecutors say he downed a Cuban airliner killing 73 aboard in 1976, and Cuba
says he bombed two Havana hotels, killing an Italian businessman in the process.
A third Latin socialist had planned to join Castro and Chavez, Bolivian presidential candidate
Evo Morales, who canceled Thursday to focus on his campaign.

Morales has been on Washington's radar screen, alongside Chavez and Castro.
US Secretary of State Donald Rumsfeld visited Peru and Paraguay this week to sound out
their views of Cuba and Venezuela's activities in the region, particularly in Bolivia.
"There certainly is evidence that both Cuba and Venezuela have been involved in the situation
in Bolivia in unhelpful ways," Rumsfeld told reporters on the flight from Washington.
Rumsfeld declined to elaborate but senior defense officials accused the Cuban, backed by
Venezuelan money, of seeking to subvert Bolivia's democratic institutions.

Bolivian protesters have taken to the streets to demand their share of gas export earnings.
Caracas has also ended cooperation with the US Drug Enforcement Agency, accusing its
agents of violating Venezuelan drug laws.
And Chavez hosted the leftist-oriented World Youth Festival, where he accused US President
George W. Bush of having "imperial logic."
Chavez, who declared himself a socialist in January, said socialism was on the rebound, 14
years after the collapse of the Soviet Union and the Communist bloc -- with the sole exception
of Cuba.

"We do not go around undermining order as president Chavez and I are accused of doing,"
Castro said. Chavez' "revolution arrived at the right moment to contribute to the second and
definitive independence of Latin America."
The two countries have strengthened military ties, and in April, signed 50 trade agreements
touted as an alternative to US free-trade deals with Latin America, called the Bolivarian
Alternative for Latin America in honor of Latin American liberator Simon Bolivar.
The two countries pledged cooperation, in which Cuba receives 90,000 barrels of oil and
returns to Venezuela more than 30,000 physicians, sports coaches and teachers.
Venezuela remains one of the top exporters of oil to the United States and is the only Latin
American member of the Organization of the Oil Exporting Countries.
Cuba is a perennial US concern, just 150 kilometers (90 miles) from the US state of Florida,
which is home to thousands of vocal, anti-Castro exiles.

mis/kd/ceh

Agence France-Presse
