Venezuela: Highlights of Radio Nacional de Venezuela news 2200 gmt 03 Mar 05
1357 Wörter
4 März 2005
12:48
BBC Monitoring Americas
BBCMAP
Figures in brackets indicate time in minutes elapsed since the start of the programme.

1. 08:30 Headlines.

2. 09:55 Chavez kicks off official visit to India. President Hugo Chavez will begin his tour of
India on 4 March, with stops in New Delhi, Calcutta, and Bangalore. His Indian counterpart
Abdul Kalam will be receiving him at the Rashtrapati Bhavan Presidential Palace in New
Delhi. Chavez's New Delhi agenda includes meeting with Oil Minister Mani Shankar Aiyar
and Foreign Minister Natwar Singh, placing a flower offering before the monuments
honouring Mahatma Gandhi and Simon Bolivar, participating in the forum "Business
Opportunities in Venezuela" together with Indian businesspeople, giving a lecture to
academia and student movement members at the Jawaharlal Neru University, meeting with
intellectuals and ambassadors accredited in India, and signing several agreements during an
event presided by Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. In Calcutta, the Chief of State is
slated to meet with West Bengal Government officials for a presentation on their local
development programme, and stage a mass rally with the people of Calcutta. Lastly, Chavez
will hold a meeting with local businesspeople in Bangalore. (2.5 min)

3. 12:37 Vice President: United States stumped over Latin American integration. Jose Vicente
Rangel Vale described as "insulting" US Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere
Affairs Roger Noriega's 2 March statement indicating that Venezuela is a threat to Latin
American countries: "[words indistinct] characterized by clumsiness and stupidity, and
reflects ignorance about the Venezuelan and Latin American reality." (4 min)

4. 16:35 Venezuelan ambassador predicts US attempt to isolate Venezuela will fail. In
response to Noriega's "interventionist" allegations, Jorge Valero, Venezuelan ambassador to
the OAS, argued that this US initiative will fail because the Bolivarian revolution has the
support of other countries in the region: "Venezuela is becoming increasingly rooted in the
hearts of the Latin American and Caribbean people. With each passing day, Venezuela
weaves more and more bilateral agreements with other countries in the region - particularly
Colombia, Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay - and the constitution of the South American
Community of Nations carries much weight in the continent. All of these factors will thwart
the attempts to distort the democratic, progressive, and pacific spirit of Chavez's political
project."

5. 18:50 Armed Forces inspector announces general staff shuffle. Vice Admiral Orlando
Maniglia indicated that by order of President Chavez, Major General Virgilio Lameda will
take over the Army 1st Division stationed in Maracaibo, Zulia State. Other changes affect the
Presidential Guard, the Army General Command, and the National Armed Forces Unified
Command. Maniglia explained that these are routine changes resulting from "alert measures."

6. 19:26 Court denies bail in Ortega case. The 49th Control Court led by Judge Gisela
Hernandez upheld the preventive custody order issued against former CTV (Venezuelan
Workers Confederation) President Carlos Ortega, remanding him to the Ramo Verde Jail in
Los Teques. Ortega was arraigned on three of the six charges brought by the prosecution, to
wit: instigation to commit crimes, civil rebellion, and false attestation to a public official.

7. 21:40 Interior minister describes Ortega arrest, says no reward paid.

8. 23:12 Finance minister presents economic outlook for 2005. Minister Nelson Merentes
expects economic growth to reach 5 per cent, inflation not to exceed 15 per cent, oil
production to increase by 3.4 per cent, currency exchange to remain at 2,150 bolivares per
dollar, and unemployment rate to be 9 per cent.
