Roundup: Venezuelan president completes Mersour tour with agreements concluded
461 Wörter
13 August 2005
Xinhua News Agency
XNEWS
Englisch

CARACAS, Aug. 12 (Xinhua) -- Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez on Friday concluded his
working visits to three countries of the Common Market of the South (Mercosur) aiming at
enhancing bilateral relations and promoting Latin American integration.
During the three-day visit to Uruguay, Argentina and Brazil, Chavez signed with his
counterparts a series of bilateral political and economic agreements.
Under the agreements signed with his Uruguayan counterpart, Tabare Vazquez, Venezuela is
to provide low-price crude oil for refining at Uruguayan refineries for 25 years. The processed
oil will be used to meet Uruguay's energy needs with the surplus to be exported to South
American countries.

Joint exploitation will take place in one of the reserve blocs Venezuela has in the eastern
petroleum strip, where there are proven reserves of 300 billion barrels of crude.
In return, Uruguay will export a large amount of agricultural, telecommunications and service
products to Venezuela.

Other joint efforts in the program include plans for an alcohol distillation project with
Uruguay near its northeastern border with Brazil and a cement plant which will export from
Uruguay to Venezuela 10 million US dollars worth of cement annually.
During his visit on Aug. 11 to Argentina, the second leg of the tour, Chavez signed with his
colleague Nestor Kirchner a series of agreements worth over 500 million dollars.
Under the agreements, Venezuela would supply 4 million barrels of fuel oil to Argentina.
Meanwhile, the latter will construct two tankers at the Rio Santiago-Dianca Shipyard for
Venezuelan petroleum transportation firm PDV Marina, which will require an investment of
112 million dollars.

Both sides pledged to improve the good relations between them and implement agreements
already signed on bilateral cooperation in such fields as energy, farming and animal
husbandry, food and medicine.
In Brazil on Friday, Chavez offered President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva a plan of joint
exploitation of an oil field on the Orinoco Strip.

Chavez promised that by the end of 2006 the construction of the Venezuelan refining plant in
Orinoco Strip could start with the cooperation of Venezuela's state-run petroleum company
and its Brazilian counterpart.
Chavez's tour to the three Mercosur countries was also part of his efforts to push forward the
integration process in Latin America.

In Uruguay, Chavez and his counterpart, Tabare Vazquez, agreed to strengthen consultation
and cooperation to help promote the process of South American integration.
During his visit to Argentina, President Nestor Kirchner and Chavez said in an joint
communique that the two countries are to step up efforts to set up regional organizations such
as the Southern Bank, a Latin American monetary fund and an American petroleum company,
so as to improve the region's economic integration.

Xinhua News Agency
